Stock Terms by Rick Yang



Buy: Buying a share/shares. Sell: Selling a share/shares.
Stock Terms by Rick Yang
(Normally have two reasons to sell: Reach the target price or lost interest) Bid: Buying price (To buy a share of the stock)
Ask: The price which people are looking to sell. (called as asking price) Bid-Ask Spread: The difference between bid and ask.
Bull Market: When the stock is in the bullish trend.
Bear Market: Opposite to Bull Market (When the stock is in bearish trend)
Limit Order: Set the price before buying it and when the price reaches to the set price, the shares will be bought. (Good habit to have it)
Market Order: The real time price. (Some apps are delayed so I do use Yahoo finance to check the real time price)
Volatility: A degree of variation of a trading price series over time.
Liquidity: How rapidly shares of a stock can be caught or sold with impacting the stock price.
(A stock that has a low trade volume can be regarded as a low liquidity)
Trading Volume: The number of shares being traded each day (A factor that has huge implications for a stock’s liquidity)
Going Long: Holding the stock longer and bet to increase of the stock price.
Averaging Down: When an investor buys more of a stock as the price goes down. Capitalization: Market Capitalization refers to what the market thinks a company’s value.
(Large-Capital): Big companies (Small-Capital): Small companies
Public Float: The number of shares that could actually trade. This excludes C-suite stocks (CEO, CTO, CFP, etc.)
Authorized Shares: The total number of shared that companies can trade in the market. IPO: An initial price offering which a company can be publicly traded in the stock market.
Second Offering: Increasing total volume of the company shares (This normally happens when company’s stock is doing well)
Blue Chip Stocks: These are the large, industry-leading companies (ex: Google, Amazon, Intel, Netflix, etc.)
Forex (Foreign Exchange): Involves trading different currencies.
Hedge Funds/ Mutual Funds: They are two different types of investment accounts
Hedge Funds: These funds may be managed aggressively or make use of derivatives and leverage to generate higher returns.
Mutual Funds: An investment fund is a collection of investment, such as stocks, bonds or other funds.
Bond: Bond is a fixed income instrument that represents a loan made by an investor to a borrower.
(Bonds are issued by governments and corporations when they want to raise money)
ETF: ETFs are exchanged traded funds. They are similar to stocks, but you are betting for a collection of securities (Specific sector)
ADRs: American Depository Receipts for foreign companies that trade in the US.
Day Trading: The practice of buying and selling within the same trading day.
Dividend: This is a portion of a company’s earnings that is paid to shareholders.
Execution: When an order to buy or sell has been completed. (When buying a small company’s stock, due to the small size of the volume, the execution could be partially executed)
Margin: A margin lets a person borrow money from a broker. (Buying on margin is the act of borrowing money to buy securities)
Moving Average: A stock’s average price-per-share during a specific period of time.
Portfolio: A collection of investments owned by an investor.
Quote: Information on a stock’s latest trading price.
Rally: A rapid increase in the general price level of the market or of the price of an individual stock.
Yield: The measure of the return on an investment from the payment and dividend.
